# Text-generation-with-RNN
How to generate text using a character-based RNN 



You will work with a dataset of Shakespeare's writing from Andrej Karpathy's The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Recurrent Neural Networks. Given a sequence of characters from this data ("Shakespear"), train a model to predict the next character in the sequence ("e"). Longer sequences of text can be generated by calling the model repeatedly.

Below is the sample output when the model in this tutorial trained for 30 epochs, and started with the prompt "Q":

QUEENE:
I had thought thou hadst a Roman; for the oracle,
Thus by All bids the man against the word,
Which are so weak of care, by old care done;
Your children were in your holy love,
And the precipitation through the bleeding throne.

BISHOP OF ELY:
Marry, and will, my lord, to weep in such a one were prettiest;
Yet now I was adopted heir
Of the world's lamentable day,
To watch the next way with his father with his face?

ESCALUS:
The cause why then we are all resolved more sons.

VOLUMNIA:
O, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, it is no sin it should be dead,
And love and pale as any will to that word.

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
But how long have I heard the soul for this world,
And show his hands of life be proved to stand.

PETRUCHIO:
I say he look'd on, if I must be content
To stay him from the fatal of our country's bliss.
His lordship pluck'd from this sentence then for prey,
And then let us twain, being the moon,
were she such a case as fills m
While some of the sentences are grammatical, most do not make sense. The model has not learned the meaning of words, but here are some things to consider:

The model is character-based. When training started, the model did not know how to spell an English word, or that words were even a unit of text.

The structure of the output resembles a play—blocks of text generally begin with a speaker name, in all capital letters similar to the dataset.

As demonstrated below, the model is trained on small batches of text (100 characters each), and is still able to generate a longer sequence of text with coherent structure.
